Recycling is an essential part of preserving natural resources and reducing the amount of waste we produce. It is increasingly important that we recycle materials correctly. However, a significant amount of people in our community need to learn how to recycle certain materials correctly. This leads to cross-contamination or incorrectly sorted recyclable materials, which can cause problems in the recycling process. Not only that, but a lack of recycling knowledge can lead to people being hesitant to recycle, which further damages the natural environment by contributing to the waste we produce. 
	
 In order to combat this issue, we have developed a recycling bin that aids in sorting recyclable material. When the user puts a recyclable item into the recycling bin, a sensor detects what material the item is made of. This allows a trap door in the trash can to open above its designated part of the recycling bin based on its material. The user is required to move a joystick attached to the trash can to rotate it. As it rotates, the item will only fall into its designated part of the recycling bin. This ensures that any recyclable materials are sorted correctly, reducing hesitance to recycle as well as incorrectly sorted materials. This solution will also combat waste production by increasing the amount of correctly recycled materials as well as increasing the number of people willing to recycle. 


The point of this code is to determine what an object is through the use of AWS Rekognition. The code is designed in a way to determine what type of recycled material is in the the chute. When the program begins, there is a distance sensor that checks to see if an item is in the chute. If the item is in the chute, the program fires a function that takes a picture of the object, and then uploads it to the user's AWS console. From there, a request is made to get a json file of the data stream. Our detection work by reading the json stream and determining if there are key words that apply to the recyled materials. If there are the key words, then a function opens the trap door that we have through the use of a motor.

https://youtube.com/shorts/0qPRnMPA5iw?feature=share
